# RISC-V

## Overview

This project consists of three scripts namely assembler_risv.cpp, pipeline_riscv.cpp and nonPipeline_risv.cpp. Assembler Script converts RISC-V instruction to Machine Language. Pipeline or Non-Pipeline script can be used to process the Machine Language produces by the assembler to generate the output. 

## Supported Instructions

The assembler supports the following instructions, grouped by their types:

### R-Type Instructions
- `add` - Addition
- `sub` - Subtraction
- `and` - And
- `or`  - Or
- `xor` - Xor
- `sll` - Shift Left Logical
- `srl` - Shift Right Logical
- `mul` - Multiplication

### I-Type Instructions
- `addi` - Addition Immediate
- `xori` - Xor Immediate
- `ori`  - Or Immediate
- `andi` - And Immediate
- `slli` - Shift Left Logical Immediate
- `srli` - Shift Right Logical Immediate

### L-Type Instructions (Load)
- `lb`  - Load Byte
- `lh`  - Load Half
- `lw`  - Load Word
- `lbu` - Load Byte (U)
- `lhu` - Load Half (U)

### S-Type Instructions (Store)
- `sb` - Store Byte
- `sh` - Store Half
- `sw` - Store Word 

### J-Type Instruction
- `jal` - Jump and Link

### B-Type Instructions (Branch)
- `beq`  - Branch ==
- `bne`  - Branch !=
- `blt`  - Branch <
- `bge`  - Branch >=
- `bltu` - Branch < (U)
- `bgeu` - Branch >= (U)

### U-Type Instruction
- `lui` - Load Upper Immediate

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- C++ Compiler (e.g., g++, clang++)

### Compilation
- First create a input file inside the testing folder with ".s" extension
- Write the input file name in the main function of pipeline_riscv.cpp or nonPipeline_risv.cpp
- At the same type write the same file name with ".o" extension
- Note : The file name with ".o" extension will created along the way. No need for the user to create it.
- Then compile the pipeline_riscv.cpp or nonPipeline_riscv.cpp which ever the user want to use.
- To compile, you can run the following command: (assuming pipeline_risv.cpp is being used)

```bash
g++ -o pipeline_riscv pipeline_riscv.cpp
```

Once compiled, the binary file will be generated inside the testing folder with ".o" extension. <br>
The output can be checked by printing the register and memory location used. <br>
To check the output user have to use the `cout` inside the main function by himself/herself. <br> 

### Example Input

#### Rules to Write Input File
- Total of 32 Register are available (0-31).
- To access register use `x` foolowed by number. Example : `x4` for 4th Register  .
- Use only lower case for the instruction, give space to distinguish and use `,` to after register. 
- Label naming is not case senitive, but kindly use lower case only
- Negative Immediate is NOT SUPPORTED , kindly use `sub` for the same

```assembly
lw x18, 0(x0)

l:
    andi x28, x18, 1
    add x19, x19, x28
    srli x18, x18, 1
    beq x18, x0, r
    jal x5, l
r:
    sw x19, 1(x0)
```

### Example Main Function

The main function assuming the file name of above is `setBit` . As the user can see, the value that needs to be used as input, has to be written in the memory before the assembler is invoked. And the final values will stored in the memory location and register is printed using the `cout` after the pipeline is invoked.<br>
- Registers are named `myRegister`
- Memory is named `myMemory` <br>
```main
int main(){
    string s1 = "setBit.s";
    string s2 = "setBit.o";

    myMemory[0]=5;

    assembler a(s1);
    pipeline p(s2);

    cout<<myMemory[1]<<endl;
}
```
## Other Features
- The Helper folder contains the following
    - An `outputChecker.cpp` script to check the output of assembler with manual written binary code (It was used by me to check weather assembler was working as it was supposed to or not).
    - `RISCV_CARD` pdf contains the cheat sheat for all the riscv instruction supported by real RISCV system
    - `try.cpp` was used by me to implement the checking of instruction format (If you like you can play with it).  
- The implementation of offset calculation for Branch and Jump type is different from the original way. You can see the difference by comparing the binary generated by my assembler with that generated <a="https://luplab.gitlab.io/rvcodecjs/">here. 
- Kindly note that implementation of `sub` and `mul` is not same as it is given in the `RISCV_CARD`. 
- All the deviation were done to make it little easier.    
- The Testing folder contains assembly script. Their are few script already present. Feel free to check them out and add more.
- The option to either use Pipeline or Non-Pipeline is entirely on the user. Both produce the same result. The only difference is in the execution pattern. 
    - In pipeline script, all the instructions are executed in 5 stage pipeline of RISCV
    - In non pipeline script, one instruction is at a time and after its completion execution of other takes place.
    - Difference can be seen when the number of lines of code will increase. The pipeline is much faster as compared to that of non pipeline. 

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to this project, feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue.
